=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Git::Contributors - Add contributor names from git to your distribution

=head1 VERSION

version 0.038

=head1 SYNOPSIS

In your F<dist.ini>:

    [Git::Contributors]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a L<Dist::Zilla> plugin that extracts all names and email addresses
from git commits in your repository and adds them to the distribution metadata
under the C<x_contributors> key.  It takes a minimalist approach to this -- no
data is stuffed into other locations, including stashes -- if other plugins
wish to work with this information, they should extract it from the
distribution metadata.

=for stopwords unicode casefolding

=head1 RECOMMENDED PERL VERSION

This module uses unicode comparison routines as well as casefolding semantics
(when available); Perl 5.016 is recommended.

=head1 CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

=head2 C<include_authors>

When true, authors (as defined by the preamble section in your F<dist.ini>)
are added to the list of contributors. When false, authors
are filtered out of the list of contributors.  Defaults to false.

=head2 C<include_releaser>

Defaults to true; set to false to remove the current user (who is doing the
distribution release) from the contributors list. It is applied after
C<include_authors>, so you will be removed from the list even if you are (one
of the) distribution author(s) and C<include_authors = 1>.

You probably don't want this option -- it was added experimentally to change
how contributors are displayed on L<http://metacpan.org>, but it was decided
that this should be managed at a different layer than the metadata.

=head2 C<order_by>

When C<order_by = name>, contributors are sorted alphabetically
(ascending); when C<order_by = commits>, contributors are sorted by number of
commits made to the repository (descending). The default value is C<name>.

=head2 C<path>

Available since version 0.007.

Indicates a path, relative to the repository root, to search for commits in.
Technically: "Consider only commits that are enough to explain how the files that match the specified paths came to be."
Defaults to the repository root. Can be used more than once.
I<You should almost certainly not need this.>

=head2 C<remove>

Available since version 0.011.

=for stopwords unanchored

Any contributor entry matching this (unanchored, case-sensitive) regular expression is removed
from inclusion.
Can be used more than once.

=for stopwords canonicalizing

=head1 CANONICALIZING NAMES AND ADDRESSES

If you or a contributor uses multiple names and/or email addresses to make
commits and would like them mapped to a canonical value (e.g. their
C<cpan.org> address), you can do this by
adding a F<.mailmap> file to your git repository, with entries formatted as
described in "MAPPING AUTHORS" in C<git help shortlog>
(L<https://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-shortlog.html>).

Duplicate names that share the same email address will be removed
automatically (keeping the form associated with the latest commit).

=head1 ADDING CONTRIBUTORS TO POD DOCUMENTATION

You can add the contributor names to your module documentation by using
L<Pod::Weaver> in conjunction with L<Pod::Weaver::Section::Contributors>.

=head1 UNICODE SUPPORT

=for stopwords ascii

This module aims to properly handle non-ascii characters in contributor names.
However, on Windows you might need to do a bit more: see
L<https://github.com/msysgit/msysgit/wiki/Git-for-Windows-Unicode-Support> for
supported versions and extra configurations you may need to apply.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<How I'm using Dist::Zilla to give credit to contributors|http://www.dagolden.com/index.php/1921/how-im-using-distzilla-to-give-credit-to-contributors/>

=item *

L<Pod::Weaver::Section::Contributors> - weaves x_contributors data into a pod section

=item *

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Meta::Contributors> - adds an explicit list of names to x_contributors

=item *

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ContributorsFromGit> - more dependencies, problematic tests, passes around a lot of extra data in stashes unnecessarily, not unicode-clean

=item *

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ContributorsFromPod> - takes the list of contributors from pod

=item *

L<Module::Install::Contributors>

=item *

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ContributorsFile> - adds CONTRIBUTORS file, containing names from x_contributors metadata

=back

=for Pod::Coverage mvp_multivalue_args mvp_aliases metadata register_prereqs

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs may be submitted through L<the RT bug tracker|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Git-Contributors>
(or L<bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Git-Contributors@rt.cpan.org|mailto:bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Git-Contributors@rt.cpan.org>).

There is also a mailing list available for users of this distribution, at
L<http://dzil.org/#mailing-list>.

There is also an irc channel available for users of this distribution, at
L<C<#distzilla> on C<irc.perl.org>|irc://irc.perl.org/#distzilla>.

I am also usually active on irc, as 'ether' at C<irc.perl.org> and C<irc.libera.chat>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Kent Fredric Ioan Rogers Klaus Eichner Matthew Horsfall Mohammad S Anwar Ricardo Signes

=over 4

=item *

Kent Fredric <kentnl@cpan.org>

=item *

Ioan Rogers <ioan@dirtysoft.ca>

=item *

Klaus Eichner <klaus03@gmail.com>

=item *

Matthew Horsfall <wolfsage@gmail.com>

=item *

Mohammad S Anwar <mohammad.anwar@yahoo.com>

=item *

Ricardo Signes <rjbs@cpan.org>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2014 by Karen Etheridge.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
